README.md, before:

# app-extension-apollo

## Introduction

This is the official Quasar app extension for adding GraphQL to your Quasar
project.

It uses [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com) and [Vue Apollo](https://v4.apollo.vuejs.org).

## Installation

```sh
quasar ext add @quasar/apollo@next
```

**Note:** You need to use the `@next` tag until the final version of v2 of Quasar is released. At that point, we'll be moving v2 of the Apollo AE to the "latest" version and you will be able to install it without the `@next` tag. At that point, in order to install the older versions of the Apollo AE, you will need to add the version tag. This version will also stay in beta until Vue-Apollo is final (out of alpha or beta).

Quasar CLI will retrieve the extension from NPM
([@quasar/quasar-app-extension-apollo](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-apollo))

The extension will add a configuration file into `src/apollo` and a boot file.
You'll need to manually register the latter into `quasar.conf.js > boot`.

### Prompts

You will be prompted if your app has TypeScript support, if you answer yes,
`*.ts` files will be added instead of `*.js`.

You will also be prompted if you wish to use GraphQL subscriptions, if you
answer yes, you will be prompted which subscription transport you wish to use. Available options are:

- Web Socket ([graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws))
- SSE (Server-Sent Events) ([graphql-sse](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-sse))
  After selecting the transport, the necessary dependencies will be installed and the initialization code
  will be scaffolded for you.

## Uninstall

```sh
quasar ext remove @quasar/apollo
```

You might also wish to remove the added directory `src/apollo` and related boot file.

## Apollo client options

Apollo client options can be customized in
`src/apollo/index.(ts|js)`.

You will need either to set the GraphQL endpoint in it, or set it as an
environment variable before running Quasar:

```sh
GRAPHQL_URI=https://prod.example.com/graphql quasar build
GRAPHQL_URI=https://dev.example.com/graphql quasar dev
```

If you don't have a GraphQL endpoint yet, you can create one to experiment
with at [FakeQL](https://fakeql.com) or other similar services.

If you are using GraphQL subscriptions, you will also need to set the
WebSocket endpoint as an environment variable:

```sh
GRAPHQL_URI=https://prod.example.com/graphql GRAPHQL_WS_URI=wss://prod.example.com/graphql quasar build
GRAPHQL_URI=https://dev.example.com/graphql GRAPHQL_WS_URI=wss://dev.example.com/graphql quasar dev
```

You can [use dotenv in quasar.config file](https://quasar.dev/quasar-cli-vite/handling-process-env#using-dotenv)
to set these environment variables in a more convenient way, if you wish.

## Usage

Check the guide in [Vue Apollo docs](https://v4.apollo.vuejs.org/guide-composable/setup.html).

Example usage:

`src/pages/Index.vue`

```html
<template>
  <q-page class="row items-center justify-evenly">
    <div v-if="loading">Loading...</div>
    <div v-else-if="error">Error: {{ error.message }}</div>
    <div v-else-if="result && result.post">
      <div>id: {{ result.post.id }}</div>
      <div>title: {{ result.post.title }}</div>
    </div>

    ...
  </q-page>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
import { useQuery } from '@vue/apollo-composable'
import gql from 'graphql-tag'

const { result, loading, error } = useQuery(gql`
  query getPosts {
    post(id: "3") {
      id
      title
    }
  }
`)
```

## Multiple apollo clients setup

Un-comment the relevant code in `boot/apollo.(ts|js)`

The following is an example using `clientA` instead of the default client:

```ts
// ...
const { result, loading, error } = useQuery(
  gql`
    query getPosts {
      post(id: "3") {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  `,
  null,
  { clientId: 'clientA' },
)
// ...
```

## Tooling

An `apollo.config.js` configuration file for [Apollo GraphQL VSCode extension](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/devtools/editor-plugins/) ((`apollographql.vscode-apollo`)) will be automatically scaffolded.

You should fill in the `client.service.url` property with the URL of the server exposing your GraphQL schema, check [`client.service` documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/devtools/apollo-config/#clientservice) to learn about other options.

This extension will automatically connect to your remote server, read your GraphQL schema and provide autocomplete/schema errors detection for your GraphQL queries.

Commit message:

fix(docs): update readme.md with info about repo/ version changes

README.md, after:

# app-extension-apollo

## Introduction

This is the official Quasar app extension for adding GraphQL to your Quasar
project.

This AE uses [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com) and [Vue Apollo](https://v4.apollo.vuejs.org).

## Installation

```sh
quasar ext add @quasar/apollo
```

**NOTE:** As of 2.1.0-beta.1, version 2 is now in the dev and default branch of the repository. It is also the version you'll get with the "normal" `@quasar/apollo` package. No need to use `@next` anymore.

Version 1 has been deprecated and is no longer supported. If you wish to use it, you can install it with `@quasar/apollo@1.0.0-beta.8`.

Quasar CLI will retrieve the extension from NPM
([@quasar/quasar-app-extension-apollo](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-apollo))

The extension will add a configuration file into `src/apollo` and a boot file.
You'll need to manually register the latter into `quasar.conf.js > boot`.

### Prompts

You will be prompted if your app has TypeScript support, if you answer yes,
`*.ts` files will be added instead of `*.js`.

You will also be prompted if you wish to use GraphQL subscriptions, if you
answer yes, you will be prompted which subscription transport you wish to use. Available options are:

- Web Socket ([graphql-ws](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-ws))
- SSE (Server-Sent Events) ([graphql-sse](https://github.com/enisdenjo/graphql-sse))
  After selecting the transport, the necessary dependencies will be installed and the initialization code
  will be scaffolded for you.

## Uninstall

```sh
quasar ext remove @quasar/apollo
```

You might also wish to remove the added directory `src/apollo` and related boot file.

## Apollo client options

Apollo client options can be customized in
`src/apollo/index.(ts|js)`.

You will need either to set the GraphQL endpoint in it, or set it as an
environment variable before running Quasar:

```sh
GRAPHQL_URI=https://prod.example.com/graphql quasar build
GRAPHQL_URI=https://dev.example.com/graphql quasar dev
```

If you don't have a GraphQL endpoint yet, you can create one to experiment
with at [FakeQL](https://fakeql.com) or other similar services.

If you are using GraphQL subscriptions, you will also need to set the
WebSocket endpoint as an environment variable:

```sh
GRAPHQL_URI=https://prod.example.com/graphql GRAPHQL_WS_URI=wss://prod.example.com/graphql quasar build
GRAPHQL_URI=https://dev.example.com/graphql GRAPHQL_WS_URI=wss://dev.example.com/graphql quasar dev
```

You can [use dotenv in quasar.config file](https://quasar.dev/quasar-cli-vite/handling-process-env#using-dotenv)
to set these environment variables in a more convenient way, if you wish.

## Usage

Check the guide in [Vue Apollo docs](https://v4.apollo.vuejs.org/guide-composable/setup.html).

Example usage:

`src/pages/Index.vue`

```html
<template>
  <q-page class="row items-center justify-evenly">
    <div v-if="loading">Loading...</div>
    <div v-else-if="error">Error: {{ error.message }}</div>
    <div v-else-if="result && result.post">
      <div>id: {{ result.post.id }}</div>
      <div>title: {{ result.post.title }}</div>
    </div>

    ...
  </q-page>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
import { useQuery } from '@vue/apollo-composable'
import gql from 'graphql-tag'

const { result, loading, error } = useQuery(gql`
  query getPosts {
    post(id: "3") {
      id
      title
    }
  }
`)
```

## Multiple apollo clients setup

Un-comment the relevant code in `boot/apollo.(ts|js)`

The following is an example using `clientA` instead of the default client:

```ts
// ...
const { result, loading, error } = useQuery(
  gql`
    query getPosts {
      post(id: "3") {
        id
        title
      }
    }
  `,
  null,
  { clientId: 'clientA' },
)
// ...
```

## Tooling

An `apollo.config.js` configuration file for [Apollo GraphQL VSCode extension](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/devtools/editor-plugins/) ((`apollographql.vscode-apollo`)) will be automatically scaffolded.

You should fill in the `client.service.url` property with the URL of the server exposing your GraphQL schema, check [`client.service` documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/devtools/apollo-config/#clientservice) to learn about other options.

This extension will automatically connect to your remote server, read your GraphQL schema and provide autocomplete/schema errors detection for your GraphQL queries.
